cases: Fast and Secure Data Caching Hub (#2587)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/use-cases/datasets-cache.md

> # Datasets Cache

Reviewer: Why "datasets" instead of "data"? To follow the structure of "Versioning Data and Models" and "Sharing Data and Model Files", what about "Caching Data and Models"?

Reviewer 2: I can give my 2cs on the naming (and maybe we can brainstorm how to make to more explicit by changing the title and/or improving the first paragraph a bit). This is indeed the most tricky and the most challenging part of the use cases usually :)

My take on this use case is that by making DVC cache and shared global we are making it an explicit infrastructure element (along with training machines or cluster, along with regular storage that is usually S3 or something, etc). It gives clear benefits, goals, lifecycle, connections to other infrastructure, etc. In this sense, it should be more about organizing infrastructure, then workflow. 

That's why probably names like "Data Cache Layer", "Datasets Cache" (pretty much the same, but domain-specific) resonate a bit better with me than "Caching Data and Models". The latter for me also covers the simple project level cache for example. And may be that's also fine, btw - we can expand and cover the local project cache as one way to do this! 

I hope it makes at least some sense. Happy to explore this together :)

Author: > Why "datasets" instead of "data"?

Yeah probably "Data" is better @dberenbaum. The trickier part is the term "cache" I think, especially readers already immersed in DVC concepts (like us). Try to read this from the PoV of a new user. "Caching" has a general meaning (not necessarily DVC cache), i.e. an intermediate storage layer that's faster but limited (smaller, more expensive). Regardless, I'll try to disambiguate for existing users (same applies for term "remote").

Also, I brainstormed on this with @iesahin and some other ideas we had are: Common Data Cache, Frequent-access Cache, Fast Data Access, Multiple Storage Layers. An interesting principle to include (maybe implicitly): "20% data used 80% of the time"

> it should be more about organizing infrastructure, then workflow

Yes I am also improving on this, to make it clear that we are presenting a pattern in this use case, not a specific DVC project setup (again tricky due to ambiguous terms).

> "Caching Data and Models" also covers the simple project level cache for example... we can expand and cover the local project cache as one way to do this!

Let's pin that for now 😅

Reviewer: Yup, I know a lot of thought was put into it, which was why I felt like it was necessary to comment. Could just be my bias. Will be interested to hear opinions of others.

Author: Went for **Fast Data Storage Layer** for now 😋

Author: p.s. @shcheklein I think naming and intro, as well as improving the figures are the 2 major things missing. PTAL

Reviewer 3: What about "Joint Cache Layer" or "Joint Storage Layer" for the name?

Reviewer 3: What about "Joint Cache" or "Joint Data Layer"?

Reviewer 4: Intermediate/Near Cache?

Author: "Joint" typically refers to 2 things (e.g. 2 parties working together). So still no perfect title... 🤷

Author: "Intermediate" and "Near" can be implied by "Cache", I think. It's a tricky one

Reviewer 3: I think "fast" is more misleading than "joint." It emphasizes the speed. We don't know if their connection in LAN is _that_ faster than the cloud. 

I think "joint" having 2 parties is OK. We are discussing to share the cache in a LAN and this implies there are at least 2 parties. 

Some more: 

- Local Shared Cache
- Local Joint Cache
- Local Common Cache
- Local Intermediate Cache
- Warm Cache (vs. Cold Cache)
- Neighbor(ing) Cache (vs. Remote Cache)
- Converging Cache (vs. Diverging Cache)
- Nearby Cache
- Adjacent Cache
- Adjoint Cache (vs. Disjoint Remote / Cache)

Reviewer 3: I think we can describe hot / warm / cold cache layers, hot being local to machine, warm being within the same LAN, cold is in the cloud.

Author: > "fast" is more misleading than "joint." It emphasizes the speed.

Yep, that's the emphasis we want to give! I think it's OK if we are clear in the content that the speed comes from making an intermediate storage layer that is near the local env (in the local network or VPN for example).

> I think "joint" having 2 parties is OK.

Joint usually refers to exactly 2 things working on something specific together. What are the 2 things and what are they doing together? Maybe I just don't understand your idea.

> Warm/Neighboring/Near/Adjacent

Those terms could be 👍 

> hot / warm / cold cache layers

I don't want to call everything "cache". We're keeping it more general with the term "storage". Remote storage is not a cache for example. And what would "hot cache" be? There's just one cache I think (the "warm" one). Local storage is not even needed (links are used).

Reviewer 3: > Joint usually refers to exactly 2 things working on something specific together. What are the 2 things and what are they doing together? Maybe I just don't understand your idea.

I'm looking at the definition and doesn't see "exactly two". Adjective definition says "two or more". 

![2021-07-31 (2)](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/476310/127734322-24626b2e-a19f-482d-81af-0d3149d36c72.png)

We have two or more systems sharing a single ("near", "fast", whatever) cache or storage. "Joint" means "shared" in this context.

Author: You're right, it's 2+ as an adjective. But IMO "joint" is still not great because it refers to things working together as one and here we're separating a storage patter into layers. Each one is independent to some degree, although DVC makes them work together but that's not the main point. They don't work together per se.

I'll summarize names in a separate comment for everyone to weight in.

Author: https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/2587#issuecomment-892240166

> Datasets used in data science tend to exceed typical storage and computing

Reviewer: Should we limit to data science? How is computing capacity relevant (maybe network capacity would make more sense)? From the rest of the paragraph, it seems like the problem is not exceeding capacity, but reducing time, cost, and complexity of storing and accessing data.

Author: > How is computing capacity relevant

One of the scenarios is that a team shares a GPU server. You can plug an external cache shared in local envs with the training env too. That was my thought process but I can remove it from here and just leave the scenario bullet if it's distracting.

Author: > maybe network capacity would make more sense

Good idea, I'll use that for now.

> seems like the problem is not exceeding capacity, but reducing time, cost, and complexity

I reordered the sentences to make it more logical.

Reviewer: Okay, computing capacity makes more sense once you explain it, so up to you.

Author: I like the networking idea better. Computing is implied in that scenario bullet about the GPU server. Thanks!

capacities. Valuable time is wasted waiting for downloads, and the wait repeats
across environments. Combined storage needs expand rapidly as more people and
projects acquire the same data, creating duplication and increasing cost. Is
there an effective way to perform this process?

![](/img/storage-layers.png) _Data storage infrastructure_

DVC's built-in data <abbr>caching</abbr> enables you to implement a simple and
efficient storage layer globally — for all your team's projects. This approach
can help in situations such as:

> - You need to speed up data transfers from a massive object store on the cloud,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You need to minimize data transfers from a massive object store on the cloud,
```
Thoughts on this? Current wording makes me think DVC will somehow increase network speed.

Author: > Current wording makes me think DVC will somehow increase network speed

Implementing the pattern we're suggesting will increase speed. Not of the network of course but by bringing the data closer. The suggestion works too but I think "speed" is a keyword in this doc.

Author: Changing to "from a massive object which is currently on the cloud" for now

  or to move a growing data store out of your machine without slowing things
  down. How do you plug in something in the middle (like a NAS drive) to
  existing projects?

- Upgrading your storage platform is expensive. Can you pay only for fast access

>   to the data sets that are needed regularly?

Reviewer: Related: should EFS be in the remote column of the image above? Seems more likely that EFS will be the cache layer than the remote layer.

>   to the data sets that are needed regularly?

Author: > Is this a separate question from the first bullet?

This one focuses on cost.

> example for this one to make it less abstract

The main scenarios are intentionally generic 😬 

> a lot like plugging something in the middle to speed up data transfers again

Yes, the solution is the same.

  on the same datasets (for example, on a
  [shared development server](#example-shared-development-server)).

- Your team shares access to a GPU server for machine learning
  [experiments](/doc/user-guide/experiment-management). How can you switch the
  working datasets quickly, without re-downloading every time?

## How it works

DVC converts your raw data, intermediate artifacts, and final results (e.g.
machine learning models) into unique storage objects. This optimizes storage by
avoiding file duplication. <abbr>Cached</abbr> files are mapped back to your
<abbr>workspace</abbr> using [file links] to minimize transfers.

> 📖 See [Dataset Optimization](/doc/user-guide/large-dataset-optimization) for
> more details.

[file links]:
  /doc/user-guide/large-dataset-optimization#file-link-types-for-the-dvc-cache

To unify data storage across multiple projects, you can configure a [shared
cache]. This compounds the deduplication and performance benefits. Having
separated data storage from other aspects of your projects, you can treat it as
an independent infrastructure layer, using Ceph,
[EFS](https://aws.amazon.com/efs/), object storage (e.g. S3,

> [GCS](https://cloud.google.com/storage/), Azure), or any other platform.

Reviewer: Sure, it's possible to use object storage for your shared cache, but is this really typical? It seems we are mixing the same technologies between the cache and remote concepts, which makes it hard for me to understand the suggested patterns. What do you think about moving object storage (and the example types) down to the next paragraph where remotes are mentioned?

Author: > it's possible to use object storage for your shared cache, but is this really typical?
moving object storage (and the example types) down

Good point. I guess it wouldn't bring it closer. Moved ⬇️ 

> we are mixing the same technologies between the cache and remote concepts

This is the case though. There's no clear line.

![](/img/shared-server.png) _Data storage shared by DVC projects_

To balance speed and cost, you can also use a `dvc remote` (or several) as
secondary storage. Data only needed in older
[versions](/doc/use-cases/versioning-data-and-model-files) of your project can
be kept there. Remote storage is also a great way to back up and
[share datasets and ML models](/doc/use-cases/sharing-data-and-model-files).

<!-- Advances scenarios? 1. No storage; 2. Only remote -->

## Example: Shared Development Server

Some teams may prefer using a single shared machine to run their experiments.
This allows better resource utilization, such as GPU access and centralized data

> storage. Each person can work in their own separate <abbr>workspace</abbr> as

Reviewer: Is this sentence redundant with the info above now?

Author: It sort of recaps as an intro to the experiment, yep. Also, mentions "resources" specifically (possibly a keyword).

Author: I mean example 😆
